# ♟️ schach.world

schach.world is a suite of web applications for organizing chess tournaments and leagues. Features include:

**League manager** (live examples [here](https://nsv-online.de/ligen/nsv-2526/) and [here](https://nsv-online.de/ligen/jbln/))
  * Since 2006 **over 25,000 matches** with more than 150,000 games have been managed through this system
  * Team managers can enter match results themselves. They receive a link a few days before the match without the need for setting up an account
  * Mobile-friendly UI with team, player and divison statistics
  * Exports to PDF and SWI (for rating calculations)
  * Teams can register online at the beginning of the season
  * Many admin functions including optimization of the league schedule

**Tournament registration** (live examples [here](https://nsv-online.de/turnieranmeldung/))
  * Generic and customizable registration system for any chess tournament
  * Support for multiple groups with configurable age and rating constraints
  * Integration with the player database of the German Chess Federation ("DWZ Datenbank")
  * Extensive admin functions including managing a "waiting list" when seats are limited
  * Export to CSV and Swiss Chess 

**Tournament results** (live examples [here](https://nsv-online.de/turniere/bezirk1/2025/) and [here](https://nsv-online.de/turniere/lem/2026/))
  * Easy upload of TXT files generated by Swiss Chess
  * Support for multiple groups with player and club statistics

**WordPress integreation** (live example [here](https://nsv-online.de/))
  * Use standard WordPress for news and static pages
  * User management via WordPress

## Technical Overview

schach.world uses Symfony for dynamic pages and WordPress for CMS and user management.
There is also some very old code in the league manager that was written 20 years ago, 
so this *life of a request* might help you navigate the codebase:

1. All requests first go through `public/.htaccess`. If the path matches a (static) file
  in the `public` directory, that file is served directly.
1. Otherwise the request is forwarded to WordPress in `public/wordpress`. WordPress pages
  including the frontpage will simply be rendered by WordPress with the `nsv-2020` theme.
    1. Note that the theme uses `public/core/nsv2020` under the hood, which can also be utilized by non-WordPress scripts.
    1. The theme can also be extended to allow customization for other organizations, see `bezirk2020` for an example
1. Some legacy dynamic pages are served by WordPress plugins like `nsv-turniere` (tournament
  results), `nsv-archiv`, `nsv-misc` or `nsv-core`.
1. The `nsv-v3` plugin keeps an allowlist of paths that are forwarded to the Symfony application (located in the root directory of this repository).
1. Most of the Symfony application conforms to standard and modern Symfony best practices,
  with these notable exceptions:
    1. The code under `src/WebApp/Core/WordPress` offers the ability to call back into WordPress
    for rendering the theme as well as for user management functionality.
    1. Any league manager code that has not been migrated to Symfony yet (see issue #53) will
    go through the `LegacyController`, which calls back into the legacy system located under
    `public/ligen`. Note that the entire legacy system also outputs using an ISO charset rather
    than Unicode for now.
    
## Local Development  

### Initial Setup

We have a docker based development environment that runs Apache, MySQL and PhpMyAdmin for you. Follow [these instructions](dev/setup.md) for setup.

### Docker Usage

- **Start containers:** `docker compose up -d` in the `dev` directory
- **Stop containers:** `docker compose down`
- **SSH into webserver:** `docker exec -it nsv-webserver /bin/bash`. This allows you to run composer and symfony commands without having PHP installed. Even if you have PHP installed on the host, this ensures you run PHP with the same version as the webserver.

### Composer & Symfony Usage

Some useful commands for Symfony development:

- **Update dependencies:** `composer update`
- **Clear cache:** `./bin/console cache:clear`. This should only be needed if the enviornment is set to `PROD`.

### Running tests

If you're using the docker setup, it's easiest to use `dev/script/run-tests.sh`. This runs
`./bin/phpunit` in the webserver docker container. It also updates the snapshot tests. 

### Updating test snapshots

Many of the tests run against the actual database docker container and the league manager test cases make extensive
use of the anonymized production database dump in order to have meaningful tests. In addition, [snapshot tests](https://github.com/spatie/phpunit-snapshot-assertions)
are used for large test coverage with minimal test setup. If you expect snapshots to change, run tests with 

`./bin/phpunit -d --update-snapshots`

and check that the snapshot changes are expected before opening a pull request.

### Test coverage

You can generate a test coverage report with

`XDEBUG_MODE=coverage ./bin/phpunit --coverage-html var/coverage`

This is also generated as part of the GitHub workflow.

### Angular Development

The more interactive components of the frontend are gradually being rewritten in Angular. See [ng](ng/README.md)
for instructions.

### React Development

A few components were written in React before I decided to move to Angular. You can find the code and instructions for those in the [javascript](javascript/README.md) folder. 

## Migrations

The most recent DB changes should be applied using Doctrine migrations with the following command:

`./bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate --em main`

TODO: Add to CI.

# License

Copyright (C) 2006-2026  Marcel Juenemann

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
